TRUMP: Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, we’ve won five major states and it looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.
(APPLAUSE)
It’s really been — it’s really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he — I know how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. That was an excellent win.
We’re going to make America great again, folks. We’re going to make it great again.
And, you know, I watched Hillary’s speech and she’s talking about wages have been poor and everything’s poor and everything’s doing badly, but we’re going to make it — she’s been there for so long. I mean, if she hasn’t straightened it out by now, she’s not going to straighten it out in the next four years. It’s just going to become worse and worse. She wants to make America whole again and I’m trying to figure out what is that all about. Make America great again is going to be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. It’s so great to be in Florida. It’s so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and the media and everybody.
(APPLAUSE)
I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he worked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as I’ve said many times before. But you know what? We’re going to go to Florida, we’re going to spend so much time in Florida. We’ve got about a 20-point lead. I know that a lot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people that want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they’re going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just came over the wires. And frankly, I think that’s fine. As far as I’m concerned, it’s fine. And if he wins, they’ll have totally controlled — total control. But he’s not going anywhere anyway, but we’ll see what happens. But we’re going to spend a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because it’s a place that is just spectacular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Remember, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-Lago and so many other places. And it’s been an amazing place to invest. It’s been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all over the world but for purposes of tonight, we’ll just say all over the country. And it’s been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our nation is in serious trouble. We’re being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed. China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have great respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our leaders don’t have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too much. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It won’t be that way for long. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already and, believe me, we’re going to redo those trade deals and it’s going to be a thing of beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where they’re killing us on the border, absolutely destroying us on the border. They’re destroying us in terms of economic development. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. Ford, moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mexico. We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. We’re going to create jobs. We’re going to create jobs like you’ve never seen.
We’re going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others think is the best plan they’ve seen. We’re going to lower taxes substantially for the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It really helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our country into a country that we all love so much and we’re all so proud of, but we’ve forgotten the middle class. So we’re going to lower taxes.
We’re lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are moving out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies, constantly now they’re leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, or they’d move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now they’re moving from here — (LAUGHTER) — not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris understands the problem, fully understands. Now they’re leaving from places that they used to move to into other parts of the world. We can’t let that happen.
We’ve lost our manufacturing jobs. We’ve lost our manufacturing. Millions and millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturing plants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We can’t let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from Japan because they’ve cut the yen. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent that it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I don’t want that to happen. That’s not going to happen. They shouldn’t be allowed to do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We have great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly don’t know what they’re doing. So we’re going to work very, very hard.
I’m so honored by this evening. If you would’ve told me on June 16th, when I was with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here tonight.
(APPLAUSE)
It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my life. And it takes courage to run. I’ll tell you what, it takes a lot of courage to run for president. I’ve never done this before. I’ve been a job-producer. I’ve done a lot of things but this is something I’ve never done, but I felt we had to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where we give $150 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the problems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly, depleted. We’re going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody.
(APPLAUSE)
So it’s just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, press, I think we told you before we’d be okay if you want to ask a few questions.
Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, you said that your campaign is focused on uniting, no dividing.
TRUMP: Yeah, right.
QUESTION: (Inaudible) — would suggest you’re dividing not just the country but your party. There’s been a lot of pressure recently to either support or reject you within the Republican Party specifically. Some strongly worded statements coming out in recent days, including one from the senator from Nebraska, Ben Sasse, said, “If DonaldTrump ends up as the Republican nominee, conservatives will need to find a third-party option.”
What do you say?
TRUMP: Well, they can always do that and then they’ll — then they’ll just lose everything and that would be the — that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If you’ve seen what’s happened, whether you go to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous victory in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at what’s happened, and tonight, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, they’re projected I guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. It’s Georgia, Alabama, Massachusetts — (CHEERS) — Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, these are amazing states and we’re going to probably get a lot more. In fact, we’re projected to have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look at what’s happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we got, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or the Democrat Party, and they’re Democrats and they’re long-time Democrats and they were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independents. And we’ve actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had in that area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We doubled it. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. There’s much less enthusiasm for the Democrats.
So I — look, I’m a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finished, I’m going to go after one person, that’s Hillary Clinton, on the assumption she’s allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I don’t know that she’s going to be allowed to run. And I think that’s, frankly, going to be an easy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I don’t think Marco is going to be able to beat her. I don’t think — in all fairness, I think Ted’s going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a shot because at least he’s won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much — we’re going to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. We’re going to be a much bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a look at the primary states where I’ve won and just look — we’ve gone from X number to a much larger number. That hasn’t happened to the Republican Party in many, many decades. So I think we’re going to be more inclusive. I think we’re going to be more unified and I think we’re going to be a much bigger party, and I think we’re going to win in November. OK, yeah?
(APPLAUSE)
QUESTION: (Inaudible) the Republican nominee? And along those lines, (inaudible) Planned Parenthood —
TRUMP: Right.
QUESTION: Are you trying to inject your tone into a more general election (inaudible)?
TRUMP: I’m just doing what’s right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work for some — for many, many — for millions of women. And I’ll say it and I know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say that’s really — because I’m a conservative, but I’m a common-sense conservative. But millions of women have been helped by Planned Parenthood. But we’re not going to allow and we’re not going to fund as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Parenthood, and we understand that and I’ve said it loud and clear. But — and we’ll see what happens. But Planned Parenthood — millions of people — and I’ve had thousands of letters from women that have been helped. And this wasn’t a setup. This was people writing letters. I’m going to be really good for women. I’m going to be good for women’s health issues. It’s very important to me, very important to me.
(APPLAUSE) And maybe that’s not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thing. I’m more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our vets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bringing education to a local level so that you’re going to have good education for our children who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-teller and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: I feel awfully good. I mean, I’m watching your people — I’m watching your people on — and I’m going to be very nice, I’m going to be very nice — I’m watching your people on CNN and I’m watching the Fox people and I’m watching the MSNBC people, too, OK? See? I’m becoming diplomatic. (LAUGHTER) And they are certainly being very nice to me tonight. I mean, you know, they’re being very strong. And they are, they’re declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you — and he was very, very nasty. I’ve never heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, but he’s got a right to be nasty. He hasn’t won anything and he’s not going to win very much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and it’s a big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the things my son, Eric, told me, which I didn’t even realize, is that not only did I win most of the states — and some are coming in and I’m expected to win them — but I came in second — I came in no worse than second. So it wasn’t like I won and then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So I’m very, very honored by the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, in Washington today, Paul Ryan, speaker of the House, and majority leader, Mitch McConnell, felt it necessary to suggest that you had not been clear enough or critical about the role of hate groups, KKK —
TRUMP: Right.
QUESTION: (Inaudible)
TRUMP: Right. Oh, they’re totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I — in fact, Chris is my number one — Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaign. He called me. He said, “Donald, what you’ve got is a movement.” We spoke today in Kentucky. You’ve never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 people inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every place we’re speaking, if we have 10,000 people it’s like a small group. We had 35,000 people the other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a movement; this is something like I’ve never seen. And in all fairness to the press, a lot of the press have said the same thing. They’ve never seen what’s happening right now. They’ve never seen anything like it. And I’m just honored by it.